---
title: Fan Mail
date: '2009-12-31 20:00:48'
---


Whenever I'm feeling down, I read through the comments on my blog that got blocked as spam. Apparently the new trend in spamming is to post legitimate-sounding messages, simply entering the website being advertised as the commenter's website in the comment form. The result is a treasure trove of flattering comments, a selection of which I've reprinted below.

In response to [*Dynamic link to currently playing Last.FM artist*](http://blog.meshul.am/2009/12/dynamic-link-to-wikipedia-page-of-currently-playing-last-fm-artist/), **football trading system** writes:

> Thank you for this valuable post. It changed my idea.

I'm glad I could change your idea, FTS. Your original idea probably wasn't that great anyway.

By some extraordinary coincidence, both **Leonard Gleisner** and **ELC** posted the exact same comment on [Job Posting of the Day](http://blog.meshul.am/2009/05/job-posting-of-the-day/):

> I am really enjoying reading your well written articles. It looks like you spend a lot of effort and time on your blog. I have bookmarked it and I am looking forward to reading new articles. Keep up the good work!

Thanks for the feedback, guys. It's great that both of you feel the same way about my blog. I do put a lot of effort into my writing, except for the posts where I quote other sources at length and then make snarky comments.

**cindi** commented on [Passive Footswitch to MIDI Using Your Soundcard](http://blog.meshul.am/2009/01/passive-footswitch-to-midi-using-your-soundcard/):

> Your Post Matt Meshulam's Brain Dump » Blog Archive » Passive Footswitch to MIDI Using Your Soundcard is really Nice.I love reading Posts on knob hardware…Thanks.

I don't even know how to respond.


